Welcome to FreeBASIC
================

Welcome to our world! This page is an overview of our online warehouse of
knowledge. Enjoy your surfing and we hope this will be the first of many
visits.

Introduction

FreeBASIC is a free, BASIC compiler for Windows (32-bit and 64-bit), 32 bit
protected-mode DOS (COFF executables, like DJGPP), and Linux (x86, x86_64, and
ARM). It is open source and licensed under the GPL. It is designed to be
syntax compatible with QuickBASIC, while expanding on the language and
capabilities. It can create programs for MS-Windows, DOS and Linux, and is
being ported to other platforms. See About FreeBASIC and Main Features.

Latest Version

FreeBASIC is a beta release compiler and development is ongoing. With each
full update, many features are added, and bugs from previous releases are
fixed. To see the latest version available, visit the News section on the
forum.

Requirements and Installation

Minimum hardware is listed on the Requirements page. Visit our Installation
page for setting up FreeBASIC on your computer.

Running

FreeBASIC is a compiler and as such is not packaged with an IDE (Integrated
Development Editor), although there are a few IDE's available. For information
on using FreeBASIC without an IDE, see Running.

Compatibility with QuickBASIC

FreeBASIC is designed to be syntax compatible with QuickBASIC. For best code-
compatibility with QuickBASIC, the QB dialect can be used when compiling
source code. See FreeBASIC Dialects and Differences from QB.

Documentation

All official documentation can be found online in the wiki at
https://www.freebasic.net/wiki. The online documentation is the most up-to-
date resource available. In all cases it can be regarded as the correct
version. The downloadable versions of the manual are snapshots of the
documentation available at a particular time and should be mostly correct for
a specific released version of the compiler. However, we do not maintain
multiple versions of the documentation so there may be some discrepancies.

Starting points in the Manual

  * Table of Contents
  * Getting Help with FreeBASIC
  * Programmer's Guide

Starting points on the Web

  * Official Website at https://www.freebasic.net
  * Official Forums at https://www.freebasic.net/forum
