Getting help with FreeBASIC
================

There are several options available for getting help with FreeBASIC.

The Manual

This huge user's manual is full of information that can help you learn to
write programs using FreeBASIC.

The manual is available online at https://www.freebasic.net/wiki. There is a
search box at the top of every page to help you find what you're looking for.

If you are unfamiliar with FreeBASIC or the documentation, you may find these
pages a good place to start:

  * Table of Contents
  * Programmer's Guide
  * Library Headers Index
  * Glossary
  * Compiler FAQ
  * Graphics Library FAQ
  * Runtime Library FAQ


A downloadable manual (in CHM format) is available from the sourceforge
project page at https://sourceforge.net/projects/fbc which features a full
table of contents, searching capabilities, an index, plus all the same content
as the online version.

Searching the manual on or offline is an excellent place to start finding help
about how to write and use FreeBASIC programs.

Examples and Source Code

In the ./examples directory located where FreeBASIC was installed on your
system are hundreds of examples to be compiled and run. Most of the external
library examples will need additional libraries to be downloaded to allow them
to work. See Library Headers Index for a full list.

Tutorials

Community created tutorials about FreeBASIC can be found at
CommunityTutorials. Some selected tutorials are included in this manual.

FreeBASIC Forum

An active community forum can be found at https://www.freebasic.net/forum with
several sub-forums. The forum has a search feature that can help you find
answers to questions or problems that may have already been asked and solved.
First do a search for your problem, if you can't find the answer then post a
message in one of the sub-forums.

Chat

IRC or Internet Relay Chat is a great way to chat with the developers and
other users, some of whom are very knowledgeable. There are several ways to
connect to IRC, if you know what you're doing simply join #freebasic on
FreeNode.

If you haven't the foggiest what IRC is and you have Java installed, you can
simply go here.

If you're trying to get help, the most important thing is to be patient.
Sometimes you won't get a reply right away. Stick around or check back and the
Community will try and assist you.
